>> Hey, Brian.
>> Hey.
>> How's it going?
>> It's going good.
>> Yeah, awesome, man. It's been a while.
It's been a few weeks.
>> We took a little bit of a holiday break. We deserve it.
>> Yeah, we do deserve it because we've been doing this for a while.
Yeah, that's good. Let's go ahead and kick this off.
We can talk more about holiday breaks there.
>> Okay.
>> Let's do it. Thanks to everyone who is here.
Definitely appreciate that.
>> Hello and welcome to Python Bytes,
where we deliver Python news and headlines directly to your earbuds.
This is Episode 366,
recorded January 9th, 2024.
Welcome to the new year. I'm Michael Kennedy.
>> I'm Brian Okken.
>> Brian, this episode is sponsored by us.
Support our work by taking our courses,
the Talk Python training ones,
the complete pytest course,
and as well as through our Patreon supporters.
All those links are at the top of your show notes,
in your podcast player, episode page, and so on.
Connect with us over on Mastodon.
You'll find us all on Fosstodon.
That's right. Michael, Brian, and the show.
It has its own pronouns and gets thrown in the group,
and it's its own website and all that.
Come see Python Bytes over there as well.
If you want to be part of the live stream, you're welcome.
That's certainly not required to take part and enjoy the show.
But if you want to be part of the live stream,
pythonbytes.fm/live.
Usually, you'll see some scheduled upcoming one.
You can click, you can smash the bell,
crush the subscribe, all the things they say over there.
But Brian, it's been a while.
Welcome back to the show.
>> It has been a while.
I'm excited to be back.
>> I am too. Thanks everyone for being patient with us
while we took a little break over the winter break.
It's always a little bit tricky to juggle that stuff,
especially Brian, when you're on a beach and it's 80 degrees
Fahrenheit or 20 degrees Celsius, 22, something like that.
It was a windy day.
There was one day it was windy, it was rough.
>> I'm really sorry about that.
>> Thank you. I appreciate your indulgences.
>> Brian, can we maybe skip this episode because I'm in
Hawaii hanging out on the beach, sipping drinks.
>> It was lovely. It's good to get away,
but it's also really good to be back.
>> I missed you.
>> Yeah, I missed you too and everyone missed the audience.
Shall we get it off for 2024? Let's get it.
>> Let's get started.
>> Anthony, one of the things that's possibly,
hopefully coming into Python 3.13,
sorry, we're not all the way up to Python 13 yet.
We're still in 3.13, is a JIT compiler.
Because of Java and other languages,
I'm familiar with JIT compilers,
but Python is going to be a little different.
Anthony Shaw was kind enough to write
up a article walking through it.
It's a really nice. There's a couple of things that I
recommend reading it if you don't
really know what a JIT compiler is,
or if like me,
you didn't know what a copy and paste JIT compiler,
or JIT whatever implementation is.
That's where he goes with this.
He starts off talking about really what a JIT is,
and really it's something that basically
generates your compiled code.
For a lot of times, it's compiled code, machine code.
But for Python, it's going to be not the compiled code,
but the bytecode. Getting the bytecode ready,
I think, I may have gotten this wrong.
But he walks through what a compiler is,
or a JIT compiler is as if you were writing it in Python.
He goes through a little example of making
your own Python version of the CPython interpreter,
which is actually written in C.
But if you were to write in Python,
it might look like this,
like switching on opcode of load constant, things like that.
You can see what those primitives are by using
the DIS module for disassembler, and that's fun.
Then he walks through,
so that's what a JIT compiler might be.
What is a copy and patch JIT compiler,
not copy and paste, copy and patch.
That's a little bit more harder to describe over audio,
but Anthony does a really good job describing it.
Then talking about really this thing,
instead of copying a piece and then running it,
it copies more than one bit,
like the entire function and then running the whole thing.
It's a little bit faster.
Then we're going to do something like that.
It's going to be something like that for Python
inside of the Python C interpreter.
It's just a good walkthrough to understand what is going on,
what are these people doing and why.
The why is it's going to be a couple of things.
It's going to be faster.
There's some benchmarks that show it's from 2-9 percent faster,
which is great. Actually,
anytime you can make things a little faster, it's good.
But is it worth it for this?
It's worth it for this partly because mostly it doesn't make it slower,
which is the good part.
Because of this JIT compiler,
there's other tricks that they can
do down the line to make things a lot faster.
>> This is great news and a good explanation.
>> It's super exciting. You're on top of the news today, Brian.
This came out this morning.
Well done. This is brand new from Anthony Shaw.
Anthony, excellent work writing this up and all the things.
One part that's interesting is 2-9 percent is great.
That's still really good to make things faster.
>> Yeah.
>> But he also points out that this is just the foundation.
Once you have a JIT,
there's all kinds of interesting things that JITs can do on
a per hardware architecture per platform story.
They can say, "Well, you wrote this code,
but I know we have these specific specialized machines instructions on this CPU.
Let's make it do that."
Or I see that you could actually inline this function.
Instead of just make it run faster,
we could inline it over here and here and here,
and then function calls in Python are expensive.
Maybe they just become not function calls.
There's a lot of possibility for where things go.
It would be interesting, I wonder,
if you could even do things like compile stuff to C,
and you see optimizations as part of the JIT compiler.
Maybe there's a bunch of layers that could happen.
I don't know. But yeah, basically,
this is a foot in the door for
compiler optimizations that we've not had before in Python.
>> Yeah. It's pretty exciting.
>> Excellent. The future is bright.
Also, compounding is interesting.
We're supposed to get Python much,
much faster by making it a little bit faster over five years continuously.
This is just part of that.
You keep adding these things up and the Python,
I don't know, 3, 14, 15,
versus 3.10 when they started could be super, super different.
>> Yeah.
>> All right. I hope people like deploying, packaging,
bundling, talking about managing
your projects because that's all I got this week.
I got one after another.
Let's start out with this Mastodon post by Bas Nijholt.
Bas says, "We're launching Unidep,
which is a unified Conda and pip dependency management system."
We've got the Conda world,
we've got the pip world.
Sometimes they work together,
but they're pulling from different sources.
You can, in a Conda virtual environment,
you could pip install a thing,
I believe, and it would still install.
But here's the deal.
You can create a single requirements.yaml file and say,
I depend on these different projects.
Those two come from Conda,
Conda Forge or something.
These three come from PIP,
PyPI. Interesting.
>> I'm actually excited about this.
This is very interesting.
>> Yeah, it's super interesting. It works with
pyproject.toml and setup.py.
It also is good for monorepos.
Why is this good for monorepos?
Monorepos are, I don't want to have to switch projects.
I don't want to have to switch projects on GitHub.
I just want one ginormous one for a whole company.
Let's just have one,
which is an insane way of working,
but it's also pretty interesting.
I've got two libraries,
they depend on each other.
It's just all on the same project structure.
You just version them together.
But that's literally every project for your company.
There's different teams potentially
working with different versions,
doing different things.
There's some web API folks,
and the web API folks are maybe PIP,
and the data science folks are Conda.
Here you could express all of the requirements for
the different projects
through these different sources.
Some might be Conda, some might be PIP,
but here's one way to express it.
Also, it'll create
consistent Conda lock files for multiple projects.
It has platform support,
and you can just uni-dep install if you want.
That's pretty cool.
Looking over at the GitHub here,
honestly, pretty much it's the same thing.
But it shows you some examples of how you
might express what is a Conda dependency,
what is a pip dependency.
In your requirements.aml,
you just have dependencies.
Let's just say NumPy or you'd say
conda colon Python graph is,
or you'd say pip colon graph is,
if you wanted that one and so on.
Look at this, you can even include other.
You have nested requirements.yaml,
which maybe talks to
the monorepo type of thing or
multiple projects just in one repository.
This thing actually requires these four other things.
This is even interesting.
We're talking about courses,
and I know you're going to mention something about
your course later.
This actually would be really nice for courses as well to do.
I suspect you probably could do with PIP.
It never crossed my mind.
I might have chapter 1,
let's do FastAPI stuff.
Chapter 2, let's add Beanie and MongoDB.
Those have different requirements files,
and you might want to just be able to express,
well, just run this one.
Just run this thing,
you have everything you need for the course,
but you also want to not
talk about everything before you get to it.
You could have one at the top of your course repository,
and then every chapter have its own one of these,
and then just pull them together with this.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> That's cool, right?
>> Yeah, I've never thought to do that.
>> I haven't either, but I've just been copying that stuff around.
Seems like I shouldn't do that really.
Awesome though. Yeah, so UniDep, it's brand new.
I don't know if this thing is going to take off and be super,
super popular or if it's going to be niche,
but it seems like it's solving a unique problem.
It really is a time of 1,000 flowers
blooming in the packaging and dependency managing space.
Previously, we talked about Hatch.
I have more to say about Hatch later as well.
>> Do you remember, did you say that
you can use a pyproject.toml instead of a YAML?
>> Yes, you can.
>> Okay.
>> Yes.
>> Because there's already enough YAML in my life.
>> Yeah, you can use a pyproject.toml.
>> Cool.
>> Alternatively, one can configure the dependencies in
the pyproject.toml under the tool.uni-dep section.
>> All right, nice.
>> There you go.
>> Yeah.
>> Well, over to you.
>> Well, like a lot of people,
I've been doing some work over the holiday break,
since we also took a break from podcasting a bit.
I've been doing some open-source work.
This is timely because I ran into some problems
with pull requests and wanting changes in pull requests,
and having some of the problems with if somebody does
a pull request and their fork is on main instead of on a branch.
It causes problems.
Instead of having to write this up as to why you should not do
this, Henik beat me to the punch and wrote this great article
saying, "Don't start pull requests from your main branch."
It's tempting. When I first started using Git at work,
even at work, personally,
when I started using Git,
I just used main and I just had one branch.
That's no big deal with my own stuff.
With a team, we had to decide,
were we going to use branches or forks?
Possibly not both, but you can use both.
In open-source, it's common to use both.
What we mean is you fork the repository and you create a branch.
Why do you do both?
Because it seems like if you're going to make a change,
you just need one or the other,
and you can't do a branch because you don't have permission.
You do a fork.
But you do both a fork and a branch for reasons,
and the reasons are spelled out here.
First, if you didn't do that,
he's giving the reasons in the sense of if you did main instead.
Why that's bad is first,
you can only do one pull request at a time.
If you were going to do your pull request off of
your main branch and it's not been accepted yet,
well, you can't go and do another pull request for a different change.
You can't do another fix because you've already used up your main.
Whereas if you do a branch off of that,
you can have as many fixes as you want.
That's reason number 1.
But people might think,
I don't care about multiple stuff,
I'm just fixing the one thing I care about.
Great. Somebody on the other end is going to have to review it,
maybe ask you for changes,
to maybe merge it even. That's great.
If they end up merging your pull request, that's awesome.
But what happens then is that branch will have changes of
both the mainline and your branch all in this branch, your main branch.
Now that has conflicts and you're not able to
pull it back to your local repository, so pulls won't work.
I don't know what you do at that point,
you blow away your fork and start over.
>> You delete your repository and you start over.
>> Yeah, lame.
The third reason is the pragmatic one of getting something done.
This is the one that bit me a couple of weeks ago.
There's two reasons.
I might be messing this up.
But if you have it on main and you have branch protection on,
which a lot of repos do,
a lot of big open-source projects,
the main is locked down.
Allow edits from maintainers is meaningless at that point.
Because what I want to do is if somebody does a pull request and I want to accept it,
but there's a minor change to it that I want to tweak it,
maybe the naming convention is wrong and it's not a big deal,
I can just change it before I merge the pull request.
You can't. If that's locked down,
the person pulling it into their repository can't do that edit.
It's just not nice and it's not fun.
Just remember to do fork and branch,
don't do just fork.
That's the public service announcement for today.
>> Yeah. Fork is required because a lot of times you don't
have write access to the main repo contributor access.
But doing it from the main branch instead of some other one is,
yeah, you only learn that that's a bad idea when you do it.
Then you're like, "Oh, no.
Now what?" I've done that once or twice.
I'm like, "I'm going to make a change and do
a pull request and submit it."
What if they don't accept it?
Then your main is out of sync forever.
You can never sync your fork up again.
There's just all sorts of problems.
>> Even if there's no ugliness there,
let's say there's, and this has happened to me many times.
Somebody wants to merge your stuff in,
but they're merging other things too,
and maybe they grabbed a few other things first.
Now they really would like to have the merge from yours be
really clean and just see the changes.
The great thing to do is to merge the new main to your new main,
and then resolve it with
your forked branch first before going all the way back.
If you don't have that, it just doesn't work.
>> Yeah, that's a good point too. Indeed.
Let's get back to deployment.
>> Okay.
>> This one's different.
This is a little bit of a web 2.0 name installed,
but zero vowels installed in STLD.
This is an interesting project.
When I first saw it,
I was like, "This seems like a bad idea.
I don't know. This seems like just a bad idea.
Let's not do this."
Then people kept recommending it and saying stuff like,
"You know what actually, that's cool actually."
Here's the deal. Previously,
what we talked about is the right way.
You're going to create your requirements,
your dependencies, you're going to have pinned versions,
you're going to have lock files.
Someone is going to create
a virtual environment or a Docker container or something like that.
Then you're going to install all of those things.
Great. What if you don't?
Brian, what if you have a single.py file you want to give to
somebody and you want to just let them run it?
But it needs one or two dependencies.
Maybe you really want to use rich
because Will's project is awesome and you
just don't want it to look plain white,
unformatted, you want it to look good.
You want to be able to handle one of
your coworkers or somebody else one of these things.
Say, just run it. Well,
just run it becomes all of a sudden a conversation
about virtual environments and all these things.
You're like, "Ah, geez,
just want to format it just a little.
Could we somehow?"
Well, installed is aiming to solve that problem.
It's not like a high-end production thing.
It's a, let me be able to pass a file around without going
through the whole process of like pi installer.
Because like, "Well, geez, I made it exe for you.
That's right, you're on Windows.
Let me recompile it."
Like, "Okay, great. No."
Here's the deal. It lets you
run Python code without installing the dependencies,
without mentioning the dependencies,
without having any awareness said dependencies so exist.
With one huge caveat,
and that's you must have installed, installed.
Once this thing is there,
it can then bootstrap everything else.
So maybe like if this was a thing you were
doing with your co-worker story, I said like, "Okay,
well, everyone pip install dash dash
user installed or pip x installed or something like that."
But once that's there, then you can run and use
arbitrary things from PyPI without having them installed,
or requirements file, or going through a step.
It'd be just Python space, your thing, off it goes.
Also, if you are in a really weird situation where you had to do it,
you could use two versions of the same library package
within a single execution of a program.
Interesting. Which you might do that
because you have incompatible libraries.
Like I've talked before about there are times where I
literally cannot pip install dash r, my requirements.
It's just like, "Nope."
This old janky version of some library,
it's pinned less than something else,
some other library, and then another library
is greater than that same library.
Well, modern pip just says,
"Guess we can't run your program, take a hike."
This would let you say,
this part of the code uses the old janky thing.
Let's use it and then get rid of it and then go back and use another.
It also doesn't leave behind junk on your hard drive.
It basically deletes everything.
How does this thing work?
Basically, in your code,
you can say you have to import installed,
and then you use a context managing,
say with installed some package.
Within that context manager,
you have access to that.
Pretty wild. Basically, that context manager
will make sure that it's installed on your system.
It'll download it, all those things,
and then presumably when it closes, it'll delete it.
You can also do it as a REPL.
You can interact with,
just like the Python REPL,
you can interact with it that way.
You can run a script.
You can say installed some script,
and then it'll be executed as if you are running it like regular Python.
But you can also pass in dependencies that it might need to run it.
Check this out. If your program has imports of
any packages other than the built-in ones,
they'll be installed automatically.
You just say installed some Python file and it goes,
"Oh, you're saying import this stuff.
You import HTTPX."
>> Hopefully, you got the names right.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah.
Anyway, you can do a bunch of more advanced stuff you can talk about there.
You can pin the versions,
you can specify which package repository it comes from.
The example here is a test one,
but if you've got a private whitelist server and so on.
There's a lot going on here.
Anyway, how does this hit you?
>> I was thinking I don't need it up until just a second ago.
>> I know.
>> Being able to do multiple versions in the same file even to say,
as an example, normally,
I test against multiple versions of pytest, for instance,
or multiple versions of something.
Like in my own stuff,
I'm testing against maybe a few different versions of a particular package.
I do that usually outside in talks to be able to install a different environment,
set up a different environment with those different things installed.
But to be able to do it all in one run,
that's pretty interesting actually.
>> It is interesting, yeah.
>> Yeah.
>> It's pretty interesting.
Apparently, when it runs,
it spits out basically the pip output.
You know what I mean? It just comes.
But in the context manager,
you can say catch output equals true,
and then it's invisible to your users.
It just takes a little startup time as it does the dependency stuff.
>> Yeah.
>> Yeah, pretty wild.
When I first saw this, I thought,
this seems like it's encouraging people to do the wrong thing.
But it's also some interesting flexibility.
There you have it, installed.
>> Sometimes people need to be encouraged to do the wrong thing.
>> That's right. How else do you learn to do the right thing?
No, just kidding. All right.
What do you got for extras?
>> I got a couple extras.
I am super excited.
The other thing, one of the things I was doing is open source code this break,
but I also was completing the complete pytest course.
I named it the complete pytest course before it was complete.
Now it actually is complete, all 16 chapters.
However, it's never really going to be done because this isn't a printed book,
it is a project.
It's a course that's up on the web,
and I'm going to update it if I need to.
I've got a good community going with it already,
and we're going to make sure that it's up-to-date with new versions of pytest.
pytest 8 is coming out,
and I don't think that I'll have to change anything,
but if I do have to change stuff,
I'll change it here first.
>> Yeah, you can just do a final replace for a 7 to 8 in your code,
and then you'll be fine.
>> I don't actually put 7 in there anywhere.
>> I know.
>> But there might be some new toys that we want to play with,
and there already were. One of the fun things
was in getting this is going through and being able to say,
I do things a little differently now.
One of the parts is building a pytest plugin,
and I package a little differently now than I did several years ago.
I got to use the new way,
and we're keeping that up to date. That's the first thing.
The other thing is, this course took a lot of my time
actually to get this to the point where it is now.
Some things went on the back burner,
and a couple of things were the other podcasts.
I've got a podcast called Django Python People and Python Test.
>> Python People.
>> Python People has new people, Will Vincent,
and I've got a whole bunch more that I need to release.
But Will Vincent was on in October,
and I finally got this released.
We talk about Django and writing technical books, and Will's awesome.
He also is the host of Django Chat podcast.
Then I don't have any,
the last Python Test episode was out December 15th,
and I'm going to be doing that next week.
I'm going to be doing that next week.
We talked about this big release of Hatch 1.8,
and then went on a two-week break.
Because like the next day he said,
great coverage on Hatch 1.8, thanks.
However, one small correction.
Remember I was so impressed and psyched
that the binaries of your apps,
if you made apps with Hatch,
which is a cool, cool feature of it, would be signed.
I'm like, how are they doing this?
How do they get away with doing this?
Well, they're not.
So one small correction.
Only the binaries for Hatch themselves
are signed by the certificate of the PSF,
not the binaries created by Hatch for you.
Those are your certificate's problems.
So we're back to signing our own apps again
and dealing with Apple and Microsoft and all that stuff.
But it makes more sense, right?
Okay, next.
This is just interesting.
PyPI had new user registration temporarily suspended.
The volume of malicious users and projects being created
outpaced the ability to respond to it in timely fashion.
So like, we just need to slow down.
No action required.
This is from last week.
Just interesting.
And I guess, thank you everyone
for being on top of this, honestly,
'cause what a hassle.
I also, I don't know what they're doing right now,
but at least I would recommend,
I don't know if it would really help,
but like Cloudflare turnstile,
at least stop the bots,
which is a way, way, way, way, way better,
way better thing than the Google reCAPTCHA thing.
So maybe if some kind of gate like that would be awesome,
then put that up.
Anyway, that's news.
Also coming up next February, February 12th,
which is in 33 days,
I'm doing a YouTube only thing on Talk Python
that I think will be really fun with Martina Puglisi
about data doodling.
So she's got this whole cool series she's doing
where she's doing like data science
by just sketching it out and just drawing pictures
and trying to understand data
before jumping into like notebooks and stuff.
And so we're just gonna talk through some really fun doodles
and it's all visuals,
which is why it's YouTube only and not on Talk Python.
- Neat.
- Exactly, but so if you're interested,
please come and click the get notified to register
in quotes to be part of that live event.
So hopefully people will, that'd be really cool.
I think she's got some beautiful, beautiful work
and we'll appreciate when we get there.
And wrote an article called,
maybe we should have R in the front,
R AI features a waste of time.
So my premise is that,
I'm just wondering like how many cumulative programmer hours
have been utterly wasted on adding very mediocre AI features
to every app imaginable that you rarely ever want to use?
So I just lay out like a couple issues,
like look at all these examples of apps
that just like they're adding AI for the sake of adding AI,
but it's not bashing on like chat to PT or something like,
it's just like, oh, you can click this to like,
correct the date by AI.
It's like, I just type the date.
Why do I need this stupid thing?
And another, this example I'll use with Spark email,
which has this really cool,
Brian, see how beautiful that is?
You can write beautiful emails in Spark, love it.
But if you try to proofread it with AI,
it deletes all the content,
it deletes the images,
and it just like jams it back as plain text,
like response from ChatGPT or something.
You're like, dude, that's not what I want.
I want to ask for you to proofread it.
Like why, this app is full of little tiny bugs
and like they're adding this,
like who would ever use that
if this is the outcome of what you get, you know?
Anyway, another example would be the Dropbox fiasco
where they just silently turned on,
hey, we're sending all your documents to OpenAI.
Hope you don't mind.
Do you have anything private?
Probably not, it's fine, right?
And you're like, wait, why did you add, nobody wants this.
Why did you turn this on
and why are you sending my data out of Dropbox?
This is not right.
So anyway, hopefully people will enjoy this article.
I have another fun one,
let's just say another fun one coming next.
- I forgot to turn that off.
- Oh, well, you can ask ChatGPT about that.
- Gone now.
- Yeah, no, honestly, it doesn't actually send it
unless you interact with one of the, like a text box.
It says, do you want to ask this thing
and the AI about your doc?
But if you ask it, then it's on, right?
So it's not clear by like entering that text box,
that input, you're now sharing your data
with some other company, right?
Like can we just have like more reliable integration
with Finder and Explorer and better sync?
Like I don't need this AI stuff.
- I had, I actually, on the topic though,
I had like a really cool AI experience.
I went to the dentist and they took x-rays
and she showed me the x-ray picture.
And then she showed me the picture right next to it
where an AI highlighted areas that might be problems
that the dentist should check out and take a look at.
- That's awesome.
- And things like that, like helping a professional
make sure they don't miss things, great use of AI.
- Yeah, proofreading less.
No, that's an awesome, awesome use of it.
Okay, ready for the joke?
- I'm almost, I want to show one more thing
I forgot to mention for a lot of people,
New Year's resolutions time for a lot of people.
And if your New Year's resolution is get better at testing,
the celebrate the pytest or the complete pytest course
you're getting done, the coupon code 2024
is open through January for 10% off.
So just wanted to mention that.
Now I'm ready for a joke.
- All right, this one has to do with managers
and sprints and super agile stuff.
Okay, this is from work chronicles or chronicles.com
put it in the backlog with dashes.
So there's a programmer clearly,
actually it's a project manager, but whatever,
like somebody on the tech team.
And here comes a person very cheery.
Hey, I have a new feature idea.
And the person a little bit bugged
getting interrupted from works is awesome.
Just put it in the backlog.
Person says, where's the backlog?
Holds up the trashcan.
- Oh dear.
- Put it in the backlog.
This goes right here.
We're busy.
- Yeah.
- Anyway.
- We actually, we've got a real backlog,
but the things that are marked low priority,
it's never gonna happen.
- Just run a filter that just hides
all the priority things.
Yeah, we're done.
Backlogs all cut up.
No, I know there's that feature I put in there.
Oh yeah, it must be a little priority.
Got it.
- Oh, it's prioritized.
We'll get to it.
- Beautiful.
All right, well, fantastic to be back with you
and everyone else, Brian.
- Good to be back.
- Yeah.
Bye all.
Bye.